Release: v0.10.0 release notes (#244)
confidential-containers/confidential-containers: releases/v0.10.0.md

# Release Notes for v0.10.0

Release Date: September 25th, 2024

This release is based on [3.9.0](https://github.com/kata-containers/kata-containers/releases/tag/3.9.0) of Kata Containers
and [v0.10.0](https://github.com/confidential-containers/enclave-cc/releases/tag/v0.10.0) of enclave-cc.

Please see the [quickstart guide](../quickstart.md) for details on how to try out Confidential
Containers.

Please refer to our [Acronyms](https://github.com/confidential-containers/documentation/wiki/Acronyms)
and [Glossary](https://github.com/confidential-containers/documentation/wiki/Glossary) pages for
definitions of the acronyms used in this document.

## What's new

* Support to pull and verify `cosign`-signed images
* Trusted image storage on guest
* Guest support for image pull

> * Report data for Intel Tiber Trust Services is now supported

Reviewer: I believe this refers to the `az-tdx-vtpm` change but the bigger picture is more like:
```suggestion
* Support Intel Tiber Trust Services as the verifier with Trustee for both Kata bare metal and peer-pods deployments
```

* Init-data support for peer pods

> * Image-rs support for whiteouts and for layers with long hard-link filenames

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Image-rs support for whiteouts and for layers with long hard-link filenames
* enclave-cc updated to Ubuntu 22.04 based runtime instance 
```

## Hardware Support

Attestation is supported and tested on three platforms: Intel TDX, AMD SEV-SNP, and IBM SE.
Not all feature have been tested on every platform, but those based on attestation
are expected to work on the platforms above.

Make sure your host platform is compatible with the hypervisor and guest kernel
provisioned by coco.

This release has been tested on the following stacks:

### AMD SEV-SNP

* Processor: AMD EPYC 7413
* Kernel: [6.8.0-rc5-next-20240221-snp-host-cc2568386](https://github.com/confidential-containers/linux/tree/amd-snp-host-202402240000)
* OS: Ubuntu 22.04.4 LTS

> * k8s: v1.24.0 (Kubeadm)

Reviewer: the operator e2e CI moved to v1.30.1 for all TEE testing.

* Not all features are tested on all platforms.
* Nydus snapshotter support is not mature.
  * Nydus snapshotter sometimes fails to pull an image.
  * Host pulling with Nydus snapshotter is not yet enabled.
  * Nydus snapshotter is not supported with enclave-cc.
* Pulling container images inside guest may have negative performance implications including greater resource usage and slower startup.
* `crio` support is still evolving.
* Platform support is rapidly changing
* SELinux is not supported on the host and must be set to permissive if in use.
* Complete integration with Kubernetes is still in progress.
  * Existing APIs do not fully support the CoCo security and threat model. [More info](https://github.com/confidential-containers/community/issues/53)
  * Some commands accessing confidential data, such as `kubectl exec`, may either fail to work, or incorrectly expose information to the host
* The CoCo community aspires to adopting open source security best practices, but not all practices are adopted yet.
  * We track our status with the OpenSSF Best Practices Badge, which remained at 75% at the time of this release.

>   * Community has adopted a security reporting protocol, but application and documentation of static and dynamic analysis still needed.

Reviewer: We had some progress in this release, though. The operator moved to use `CodeQL` for static scans and it will be added for all other Go based repositories in the next release. Static scan for Rust based repos will be "N/A" so "still needed" is a bit misleading. We have also improved a lot with keeping our dependencies automatically updated using dependabot.

# Release Notes for v0.10.0

Release Date: September 25th, 2024

This release is based on [3.9.0](https://github.com/kata-containers/kata-containers/releases/tag/3.9.0) of Kata Containers
and [v0.10.0](https://github.com/confidential-containers/enclave-cc/releases/tag/v0.10.0) of enclave-cc.

> 

Reviewer 2: Can you add a note here about how this release brings feature parity with CCv0

Please see the [quickstart guide](../quickstart.md) for details on how to try out Confidential
Containers.

Please refer to our [Acronyms](https://github.com/confidential-containers/documentation/wiki/Acronyms)
and [Glossary](https://github.com/confidential-containers/documentation/wiki/Glossary) pages for
definitions of the acronyms used in this document.

## What's new

* Support to pull and verify `cosign`-signed images
* Trusted image storage on guest

> * Guest support for image pull

Reviewer 2: Guest image pull was already supported. Which PR are you referring to here?

Author: My mistake. This is not new support; this a re-work of the API from [here](https://github.com/confidential-containers/guest-components/pull/608), which we can leave off the notes.

* Support Intel Tiber Trust Services as the verifier with Trustee for both Kata bare metal and peer-pods deployments
* Init-data support for peer pods

> * Image-rs support for whiteouts and long names

Reviewer 2: link names over 100 characters
